# IoTAware
MSc Computer Science Dissertation Project - How to Ensure Users Have Awareness and Control of the Collection, Storage and Processing of their Personal Data within IoT Systems.

## Project Summary

Internet of Things (IoT) devices create new ways through which personal data is collected and processed. As such, end users frequently have little awareness of, and even less control over, their personal data collection, storage and processing. Given privacy behaviours of individuals are often inconsistent with their stated attitudes (a phenomenon known as the “privacy paradox”), the challenges of managing privacy choices in the IoT, will aggravate these inconsistencies and potentially lead to troublesome or regrettable experiences. **To help people address these privacy inconsistencies, this project proposes a conceptual architectural model and mock-up prototype design of a privacy awareness and control interface for the IoT**. Its personalised privacy notification approach juxtaposes users’ general privacy attitudes towards IoT technologies and the privacy riskiness of particular nearby IoT resources. The system notifies users of the existence of nearby IoT sensors and, by highlighting any privacy discrepancies, nudges users toward making decisions to control their privacy in alignment with their privacy attitudes. Although the infrastructure of “IoTAware” intends to be applicable to a wide range of IoT scenarios that involve notifying users of nearby IoT sensors, the solution is envisaged in a setting of IoT cameras using facial recognition technology. This paper provides an overall evaluation of the solution, primarily through a user study carried out as two online experiments. The findings suggest that the privacy discrepancy approach is effective at nudging users to behave in line with their privacy attitudes in the IoT.

